---
title: What
layout: post
---

Trump has been president elect for two days. I didn't see that coming. To be honest, not from a "how could my research be so wrong" angle, but "how could my feelings be so betrayed."

I know, we are irrational animals.

And now I'm trying to be rational. [This piece](http://waitbutwhy.com/2016/11/its-going-to-be-okay.html) at "Wait But Why" helps. We (I) really can't go making caricatures of the people that voted for Trump. That doesn't help anyone, it only contributes to the divisiveness. It only makes me a more divisive. If I want to be better than that, I need to do two things:

1. Understand the issues. This means reading, understanding, all the sides of any particular issue. I need to seek out opinions and facts that are counter to my gut reactions.
2. Understand the people. If I disagree with someone on the issues, i need to make an effort to understand their personal world. Their hopes. Their fears.

Frankly, neither are easy. I’ve already got work, and family and volunteering with Scouts. There are people close to me that I need to reach out to, be more engaged. And, yeah, I want some time to have fun, as well. So I’m not sure how that’ll go. But, as with most things, I want to set a good example for the boys. I want to model the way life _should_ be lived. Even if it's very hard for me.

So, what would I like to do?

First, I’d like to pick one issue at a time; a decision that is facing my elected officials. That is everything from the county to the commonwealth to the nation. Pick one issue and understand what is at stake. What is the problem they are trying to solve. Understand the facts of the issue, understand why someone would (or would not) support the issue. Try to boil it down to “what are the hopes and fears being addressed?”

Second, I’d want to talk to other folks about the issue. What does it mean to them. When presented with the facts of the issue, does it change their mind? What hopes and fears are triggered by this issue? What other topics does it bring up?

Again, yeah, that sort of project would be a lot of work. And do I have the time? Well, we do make time for what is important to us, right? So, we’ll see. If I do manage to pull this off, I’ll post them to this space.
